Welcome back. In this video,
we're going to walk through creating the Sails "Hello, World!"
application. We'll just be following along through their documentation.
So, if you'd rather speak through and do it yourself,
you'll be right along with us by the end of this video.
If you stick with us, hopefully,
there's some helpful tips and tricks along the way
that will help you get even more familiar with the process.
To start, head back to sailsjs.com.
Once you're there, click on Get started.
Scrolling down, you'll see the directions on how to start building your application.
At this point, you've hopefully been working with Node.js for awhile already.
So, you can skip this first section.
Now, jump over to your terminal to install Sails using the command they show,
npm install sails -g. After a few seconds,
you'll have Sails installed on your computer.
Next, we need to create a place to hold the test project.
To do that, I'll go to my desktop,
create a Sails project folder,
then cd into that folder.
Now, type sails new test-project.
A prompt will appear that is giving you the option to either start
your app with existing functionality or to start from scratch.
For this demo, we'll start with the template web app by selecting one.
At this point, all the dependencies will start to install,
which can take a minute or so.
You can open the folder to see all the files that are being installed.
When it's done, it'll let you know that the Sails app test project was created.
Finally, navigate into your test project folder using cd test-project.
Then type sails lift into the terminal.
See, it's not only the squid pictures in documentation,
even the code itself is playing off the sailboat analogy.
At this point, you've lifted the Sails,
and you're ready to check out your Sails application.
Open a new browser window and type localhost:1337 to see how it looks.
It's pretty nice how much they set up for us to start.
The page itself directs you through what they've done,
how it works, and where to find even more resources.
Feel free to look around for a little while to explore your new application.
When you're ready, come back to us the next video,
where we'll go through the project files to look through what just happened.